feat: I guess it's esm (#37535)
electron/electron: docs/tutorial/esm-limitations.md

> # ESM Limitations

Reviewer: docs: Before this ships to folks, I'd love to have a full "and here's ESM" guide that approaches this holistically. cc @electron/docs

Reviewer: And a technical blog post might be interesting too if you have the time to do some knowledge sharing!

# ESM Limitations

This document serves to outline the limitations / differences between ESM in Electron and ESM in Node.js and Chromium.

## Sandboxed preload scripts can't use ESM imports

> Sandboxed preload scripts are run as plain javascript without an ESM context.  It is reccomended that preload scripts are bundled via something like `webpack` or `vite` for performance reasons regardless, so your preload script should just be a single file that doesn't need to use ESM imports.  Loading the `electron` API is still done via `require('electron')`.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Sandboxed preload scripts are run as plain javascript without an ESM context.  It is recommended that preload scripts are bundled via something like `webpack` or `vite` for performance reasons regardless, so your preload script should just be a single file that doesn't need to use ESM imports.  Loading the `electron` API is still done via `require('electron')`.
```

If you enable context isolation `import()` from the isolated preload context will use the Node.js loader and `import()` from the main context will continue using Chromium's loader.

## You must use `await` generously in the main process to avoid race conditions

Certain APIs in Electron (`app.setPath` for instance) are documented as needing to be called **before** the `app.on('ready')` event is emitted.  When using ESM in the main process it is only guaranteed that the `ready` event hasn't been emitted while executing the side-effects of the primary import.  i.e. if `index.mjs` calls `import('./set-up-paths.mjs')` at the top level the app will likely already be "ready" by the time that dynamic import resolves.  To avoid this you should `await import('./set-up-paths.mjs')` at the top level of `index.mjs`.  It's not just import calls you should await, if you are reading files asynchronously or performing other asynchronous actions you must await those at the top-level as well to ensure the app does not resume initialization and become ready too early.

> ## Node.js preload scripts will not run syncronously on pages with no content

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
## Node.js preload scripts will not run synchronously on pages with no content
```

> If the response body for the page is **completely** empty.  I.e. `Content-Length: 0` the preload script will not block the page load.  This is an extreme edge case and if this impacts you you should just change your response body to have _something_ in it, we reccomend an empty `html` tag (`<html></html>`).

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
If the response body for the page is **completely** empty.  I.e. `Content-Length: 0` the preload script will not block the page load.  This is an extreme edge case and if this impacts you you should just change your response body to have _something_ in it, we recommend an empty `html` tag (`<html></html>`).
```

also, i'd love to not have this weird edge case 😭 but maybe we can bugfix it later.

> If the response body for the page is **completely** empty.  I.e. `Content-Length: 0` the preload script will not block the page load.  This is an extreme edge case and if this impacts you you should just change your response body to have _something_ in it, we recommend an empty `html` tag (`<html></html>`).

Reviewer 3: let's be less judgy here

```suggestion
If the response body for the page is **completely** empty,  i.e. `Content-Length: 0`, the preload script will not block the page load, which may result in race conditions.  If this impacts you, change your response body to have _something_ in it, for example an empty `html` tag (`<html></html>`).
```

also, does this apply to e.g. `about:blank`?

Author: `about:blank` doesn't run preloads iirc 🤔

Reviewer 3: i thought it ran session preloads..?

Author: Well darn 🤔 That might require some re-thinking here.  How big of a deal do you think about:blank session preloads are?

Reviewer 3: I think it's pretty important to get them to work! I'd be surprised if there were zero apps depending on them.

# ESM Limitations

This document serves to outline the limitations / differences between ESM in Electron and ESM in Node.js and Chromium.

## Sandboxed preload scripts can't use ESM imports

Sandboxed preload scripts are run as plain javascript without an ESM context.  It is recommended that preload scripts are bundled via something like `webpack` or `vite` for performance reasons regardless, so your preload script should just be a single file that doesn't need to use ESM imports.  Loading the `electron` API is still done via `require('electron')`.

> ## Non-context-isolated renderers can't use Node.js ESM imports

Author: I think there's a misunderstanding here (which is good it shows the docs need improvement).  Lemme draw a table and clarify something.

In the renderer process there are two different "ESM" loaders.  Node's and Blinks.  There are also two different ways of doing ESM imports.  The static `import foo from 'bar'` directive and the dynamic `import('bar')` method.  With this information in hand the table below should make more sense

| | NodeJS Static Import | NodeJS Dynamic Import | Blink Static Import | Blink Dynamic Import |
|-|----------------------|----------------------|----------------------|----------------------|
| Sandbox Enabled | No (sandbox means no node) | No (sandbox means no node) | Yes, main world only | Yes, main world only |
| Sandbox Disabled, Context Isolation Enabled | Yes, preload script only | Yes, preload script only | Yes, main world only | Yes, main world only |
| Sandbox Disabled, Context Isolation Disabled | Yes, preload script only | No | Yes, main world only | Yes, main world only |

> if enabling ESM Node imports from preloads requires disabling an important security feature (sandboxing), is it worth supporting at all?

I think the misunderstanding here is that enabling "ESM Node imports" by definitions requires disabling the sandbox because it requires enabling "Node" in the first place.

The only two edge cases (which I tried to document here) are:
* Sandbox off, ctx isolation off: NodeJS dynamic import is not supported anywhere
* Sandbox on: even blinks static and dynamic imports are not supported at all in preload scripts (in the same way that CJS isn't currently supported in these scripts either)

## Node.js ESM Preload Scripts will run before page load on pages with no content

If the response body for the page is **completely** empty, i.e. `Content-Length: 0`, the preload script will not block the page load, which may result in race conditions. If this impacts you, change your response body to have _something_ in it, for example an empty `html` tag (`<html></html>`) or swap back to using a CommonJS preload script (`.js` or `.cjs`) which will block the page load.

## ESM Preload Scripts must have the `.mjs` extension

> In order to load an ESM preload script it must have a `.mjs` file extension.  Using `type: module` in a nearby package.json is not sufficient.  Please also not the limitation above around not blocking page load if the page is empty.

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion
In order to load an ESM preload script it must have a `.mjs` file extension.  Using `type: module` in a nearby package.json is not sufficient.  Please also note the limitation above around not blocking page load if the page is empty.
```
